# Mini-Project-5th-Sem-Expense-Tracker
The project is developed to arrive at a comparison of expenses on a monthly basis . It extensively uses Python Programming Language to visualize the data and a lot more.
The main purpose is to build an application program as manual copies of managing expenses tend to cause human error thus making the working of an organisation inefficient. Usually the shelf management system is a tiresome job for an individual in maintaining all the details of amount spent on various categories for a period of month, his credentials and many more wherein he or she searches for the records preserved physically. In the process he probably might get disappointed if there is a lack of the neat records.
Also, Expense management has kept paper record in filing cabinets. If it proves that monitoring individual expense on a monthly basis is difficult then managing a very large corporate, business agency with records on papers will be tedious and difficult to keep track of inventories with regards to the cost incurred and their details. The individual has to look for manual records for every operation or action to be performed.
Significant amount of time is allocated for writing the expense and category details as he/she needs to go through the records available and make rough estimate of the amount spent for current and previous month. Also, the details of already availed user have to be maintained to raise awareness about the unnecessary amount spent.
Thus, Expense Tracker allows for database server application to efficiently manage the data to ensure an elevated performance of the organisation.
Also, data security cannot be fortified by the manual copies.
Thus, the objective of project is to generate a clear database and to present a comparative analysis by visualizing data with the help of database. It proves to be a great help for an individual in making the most effective financial decisions.
